The theme for this program is, as Jehovah's sheep reject the voice of strangers.
It's estimated that there may be fifteen million animal species on earth today.
But of all these animals, which one is most often used in the Bible to represent good
people?
Sheep.
Jesus often uses illustration.
Here are three examples.
First, to his twelve apostles, he said at Matthew 10-16,
I am sending you out as sheep among wolves.
Second, regarding what he'll do shortly before Armageddon,
he said at Matthew 25-32 and 33 that
he will separate people one from another,
just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats.
In subsequent verses, he describes how the sheep
will inherit everlasting life.
But the goats will depart into everlasting destruction.
Our third example, Jesus said, at John 10-16,
I have other sheep which are not of this fold.
Those two I must bring in, and they will listen to my voice,
and they will become one flock, one shepherd.
But a question arises, why did Jesus use a sheep illustration
to represent people who will gain everlasting life?
Undoubtedly, because of the desirable qualities
literal sheep have.
They're gregarious, having a liking for a companionship.
They don't like to be alone, and it's a good thing
because without the flock in the protection of the shepherd,
they're defenseless if a lion or bear approaches.
About all they can do is bleat.
Baw!
Goodbye, little sheep.
Another good quality is that sheep as a whole tend to be peaceful,
inoffensive, very different from goats.
As little boys, my brother and I would pet the goats
that my grandfather had.
But if we turn our backs on them, one would often sneak up behind us
and but us for no reason.
These are some of the desirable characteristics
that make sheep an appropriate illustration for good people.
But the quality we especially want to focus on
is identified at John 10-4-5.
When he, that is the shepherd, has brought all his own out,
he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him
because they know his voice.
They will, by no means, follow a stranger
but will flee from him, because they do not know the voice
of strangers.
So what's the desirable quality?
Sheep listened to the voice of their shepherd
and reject the voice of strangers.
Regarding this quality of sheep,
the September 1st 2004 watchtower said this.
A book on Bible lands relates that a visitor once claimed
that sheep recognized their shepherd by his dress,
not his voice, a shepherd answered that it was the voice they knew.
To prove this, he exchanged clothing with a stranger.
Dressed in the shepherd's garb,
the stranger called the sheep,
but they did not respond.
They did not know his voice.
Yet when the shepherd called them,
though he was disguised, the sheep came at once.
Please ask yourself,
as one of Jehovah's figurative sheep,
do I obediently respond to the voice of the fine shepherd
and flee from the voice of strangers?
Well, let's talk about this.
The original stranger was Satan the Devil.
Like a ventriloquist, he made a serpent appear to top,
but the words were Satan's words.
Satan thereby used his voice to slander Jehovah
and deceive Eve.
Today, Satan continues his work as an evil ventriloquist
using not serpents,
but human puppets to enunciate his voice
these acting as his agents,
either wittingly or unwittingly.
But now, let's discuss three examples
of how our fine shepherd tells us one thing,
but Satan's underlings or strangers
tell us something opposite.
We must be vigilant to listen to the right voice.
Our fine shepherd tells us as our first example,
these words at Matthew chapter 24,
verses 45 through 47,
who really is the faithful and discreet slave
whom is master appointed over his domestics
to give them their food at the proper time.
Happy is that slave if his master on a coming
finds him doing so?
Truly, I say to you, he will appoint him
over all his belongings.
We know the master Jesus found the faithful
and discreet slave spiritually feeding
right-hearted ones in 1919,
and at a future time will appoint him
over all his belongings.
So what's the implication?
Obviously, even now,
Jesus fully trusts the faithful slave,
and all of us,
even individual members of the governing body,
should do the same.
But what does the voice of strangers say on this subject?
Don't trust the faithful slave.
He will mislead you.
And who often have the loudest voice
promoting this false message?
Upostates.
Hebrews 139 labels false messages
as strange teachings.
Yes, they are the teachings of strangers.
Some examples of their strange teachings
are that the faithful slave protects pedophiles,
or that slave will exploit you
so they can live lives of luxury.
Those are both bald-faced lies.
Acts 2030 says that apostates speak
twisted things. They do this
in order to draw God's sheep away
and make them followers of themselves.
Something that's twisted
is been out of shape or distorted.
They speak twisted things
by leaving out vital details,
taking things out of context,
or in some other way
manipulating a truth
into a lie
or into a misleading half-truth.
Second Peter 2.3 says,
They will greedily exploit you
with counterfeit words.
A counterfeit is something that's carefully designed
to look like the real thing.
Take, for example, counterfeit money.
It might look genuine,
but it's fake and thus worthless.
If we're deceived into accepting it,
we'll lose money.
But if we're deceived into accepting
the counterfeit words of apostate,
we'll lose our life.
And apostates will give us
absolutely nothing of value in exchange.
Can you imagine
really needing a loving,
shepherding visit
and asking apostates to give you one?
Similarly, we must be careful
about believing everything presented
in the media
about Jehovah's organization.
Remember, the media is commonly
motivated by prejudice, hatred,
and a desire for profit.
False and exaggerated news reports
are very common.
For example, in one European country,
many people were indignant
when an emotional press report
stated that a young female witness
died because she refused
a blood transfusion.
Were those the complete facts?
No.
The patient refused a blood transfusion
on religious grounds,
but she did agree
to alternative non-blood medical management.
This could have been implemented immediately
and likely would have saved her life.
However, the hospital delayed matters
unnecessarily
until it was too late.
The press report didn't mention these facts,
while it's unreasonable
to distrust all secular sources of information,
we must be wary.
First John 5.19 says,
the whole world is lying
in the power of the wicked one.
Now, let's discuss a second example
of the voice of our fine shepherd, Jesus.
Matthew chapter 5
verses 27 and 28.
Jesus said,
You heard that it was said,
you must not commit adultery.
But I say to you
that everyone who keeps on looking at a woman
so as to have a passion for her
has already committed adultery with her in his heart.
Our fine shepherd is telling us
not only to avoid sexual immorality,
but also to flee from anything
that could lead to it,
such as immoral thoughts.
And at Matthew 19.9,
our fine shepherd tells us,
I say to you
that whoever divorces his wife
except on the grounds of sexual immorality
and marries another
commits adultery.
Here Jesus makes clear
that the only valid basis for divorce and remarriage
in God's eyes
is if a disloyal mate
commits sexual immorality.
But what's the voice of strangers
of Satan's world telling us
regarding divorce, adultery,
and other forms of sexual immorality?
No problem.
It's your choice.
You have the freedom
to do what you want.
In fact, in order to make sexual immorality
appear more innocent,
it's often euphemized.
Sexual perversion, such as homosexuality,
is called an alternative lifestyle.
One so-called expert said,
it's simply like being left-handed.
Pornography is called adult entertainment.
Adultress betrayal of one's marriage mate
is called having an affair.
Many call getting married old-fashioned
and see nothing wrong
with living together
without marriage.
And this world's media
is very skillful
at presenting something bad
as good.
For example, in a movie
a female character might be portrayed
as having a husband who is abusive.
You like the woman
and you want her to find happiness.
Then a handsome man starts working in her office
and he's so nice to her.
There's an attraction between them,
and the budding romance
is presented
as something good.
Soft background music makes it hard
to consider her course to be bad.
It's easy to keep watching
and hope she leaves her marriage mate
and runs off with a workmate.
And usually that's what happens.
So easily we can forget
that Jehovah and Jesus hate adultery
and unscriptual divorce.
But when we reject the voice
of this world
and listen to the voice of Jehovah and Jesus,
we bring protection and blessings
to ourselves and others.
But now our third example
of the voice of our fine shepherd
is at Matthew 6
and we're going to read verses 19
and 20.
Stop storing up for yourselves treasures
on the earth
where moth and rust consume
and where thieves break in and steal.
Rather, store up for yourselves treasures
in heaven where neither moth
nor rust consumes
and where thieves do not break in
and steal.
We're told
that our focus should be on spiritual things
and not on physical things.
And this is especially true
when thinking about where we are
in the stream of time.
In the final part
of the final part
of the last days.
But what's the voice of strangers
of this world on this subject?
Exert yourself vigorously
to acquire material possessions.
Pursue things
that will make your life comfortable
because that
is what will bring you happiness.
The question is,
to whom are we listening?
Jehovah and Jesus tell us
to be content now
with a spiritual paradise
and to concentrate
on our lifesaving preaching work
and that they will provide
a physical paradise
later.
First Peter 211 indicates
that we should view ourselves
as temporary residents
who are just passing through this old system
and headed for the real life
in the new world.
What do we mean by temporary resident?
We'll imagine that you rent an old house to live in
while a new,
beautiful house is being built for you.
You'll live there only a few months.
Would you install a new concrete driveway?
Would you put in new electrical wiring
and plumbing?
Would you install brand new vinyl siding?
No.
You might do a few cosmetic things
to make your stay a little more comfortable
but you wouldn't do anything major.
Why?
Because you know
you're just a temporary resident
and that soon
you'll move
into your beautiful new home.
Well, if we think of ourselves
just as temporary residents
in this old system,
it'll be a real protection
against the materialism
that is promoted
by the voice of strangers.
We've now discussed three examples
of Jesus' voice.
Number one,
trust the faithful and discreet slave.
Two, reject sexual immorality
and unscriptural divorce.
Three, focus on storing up spiritual treasures
rather than material treasures.
Of course, there are many other examples
of these two different voices
but may we all be vigilant
to listen to the right voice.
Of Jesus, Jehovah Himself said,
this is my Son, the beloved,
whom I have approved.
Listen to Him.
But in order to do so obediently
as Jehovah's sheep,
we must reject
the voice of strangers.